
Hiking is the preferred term, in Canada and the United States, for a long, vigorous walk, usually on trails, in the countryside, while the word walking is used for shorter, particularly urban walks. In the United Kingdom, and the Republic of Ireland, the word "walking" is acceptable to describe all forms of walking, whether it is a walk in the park or backpacking. 
The term bushwalking is endemic to Australia, having been adopted by the Sydney Bush Walkers club in 1927. In New Zealand a long, vigorous walk or hike is called tramping. It is a popular activity with numerous hiking organizations worldwide, and studies suggest that all forms of walking have health benefits (Wikipedia)

Benefits of Hiking

Hiking is one of the healthiest activities. In addition to getting a fresh air and an exercise, hiking is a powerful cardio workout that can:

•	Lower your risk of heart disease
•	Improves your blood pressure and heart rate.
•	Strengthen your core
•	Improve balance
•	Help control your weight
•	Boost your mood. "Research shows that hiking has a positive impact on combating the symptoms of stress and anxiety," says Gregory A. Miller, PhD, president of the American Hiking Society. "Being in nature is ingrained in our DNA, and we sometimes forget that."

Six Reasons Why You Should Spend Outdoors Hiking:

1. Fresh air is good for your digestive system
Fresh air increases the flow of oxygen helping you digest food more effectively so this will particularly help if you are trying to lose weight.

2. Fresh air helps improve blood pressure and heart rate
Avoid polluted environments particularly if you need to improve your blood pressure. Stay away from the busy traffic as the body will need to work harder to get the amount of oxygen it needs over polluted car fumes. 

3. Fresh air makes you happier
The more fresh air you get, the more oxygen you will breathe which will increase the amount of serotonin (the happy hormone) you inhale, consequently making you happier.

4. Fresh air strengthens your immune system
By increasing the amount of fresh air we get, will increase the amount of oxygen which helps our white blood cells function properly by fighting and killing bacteria and germs. 

5. Fresh air cleans your lungs
You lungs dilate more from having an increase of oxygen so fresh air improves the cleansing of your lungs. You release airborne toxins from your body when exhaling through your lungs.

6. Fresh air gives you more energy and a sharper mind
You may have noticed after spending time outside, you come back indoors feeling brighter and perhaps ready to get back to work. More oxygen results in greater brain functioning, improving your concentration skills and providing you with more energy.
In addition, venturing outside will also help you produce vitamin D from the sun (when it does come out), which is essential for many bodily functions including supporting our immune system, strengthening our bones, teeth and much more. 
(Taylor, 2017)		


References:

H. W. Orsman, The Dictionary of New Zealand English. Auckland: Oxford University Press, 1999. ISBN 0-19-558347-7.

McKinney, John (2009-03-22). "For Good Health: Take a Hike!". Miller-McCune. Archived from the original on 2011-04-29.

American Hiking Society, "A Step in the Right Direction: The health benefits of hiking and trails" (PDF). American Hiking Society. Retrieved 1 June 2012.
https://americanhiking.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Heath-Benefits-of-Hiking-fact-sheet

Sydney Bush Walkers Club's history

Wikipedia, n.d.,  Hiking,
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiking
 
Taylor R., 25 April 2017, Kent-Teach Advisor in Wellbeing,
6 Benefits of Getting Fresh Air
	https://www.kent-teach.com/Blog/post/2017/04/25/6-benefits-of-getting-fresh-air.aspx

Robinson K., September 15, 2013, WebMD Magazine 
	https://www.webmd.com/fitness-exercise/features/hiking-body-mind





